Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture and this lecture.
We're going to cover what we call it variable assignment.
Okay.
Which is kind of a very important concept in programming in general and it's very important concept
in Python programming specifically.
And I'm going to be using it kind of extensively throughout throughout the course and through all the
practical projects as well moving forward.
Great.
So let's zoom in a little bit.
So it could be clear for you guys so we're going to do here to perform naval assignment.
First we're doing a very big assignment so let's assume that we wanted to for example multiply two numbers
together.
So I have two options the first option is going to say 10 multiplied by five and then come around this
cell that will generate 50.
OK.
The only problem is that in general in programming in general we just don't like this.
You know doing this we don't like just multiplying two numbers.
And you know like don't we like it.
Instead of using these two numbers just to multiply them directly.
We prefer to actually put these numbers in what we call variables which is kind of a tank.
Think of it as kind of a tank.
And we put very you know like value in that tank and then that gwilt before whatever we want on these
variables what that tank moving forward.
All right let's take a look at example.
So let's assume I wanted to perform the exact same operation but just kind of in a different kind of
a more you know like elete way or elegant way.
I'm going to call a variable call it a and then get put equals 2 and then I'm going to put 10 in it
which means I find the fabre called A and I put numbers 10 into it.
So if I hit on this cell actually see the 10 has ran already but nothing happened.
Why.
Because you didn't perform any operation.
You just put 10 in to a if you wanted to view a from one to look at a neck and write a.
And run That was TELL ME WHAT'S IN A.
Which means there is value of 10 inside our variable which makes complete sense.
OK.
What if I wanted to divine and find another variable called.
And the find be equal to let's say five k and around it.
OK.
Nothing happened.
But if I look take a look at B and run it that will tell me.
Well.
B has number 5.
Well I could do right now that it can do what we call it.
Mathematical Operations Executive seem as we have done before but in a kind of a more elegant way.
What I'm going to do here are going to see which is it go continue variable sequence to say a multiply
by B.
So instead of directly multiplying 10 times 5 what I did here is just some of the ply 10 by 5.
Okay but I did that kind of an invariable assignment format instead of multiplying number two directly.
I'm going to multiply the actual variables which is a n B which is already contains 10 and 5 as well.
Right around that nothing can happen.
But if I view C for C and are run it then you would come up with values 50.
Which is exactly the same as the value that we are in before here which is great.
Okay so what's the what's the value what's licking.
Well what did we gain here.
What we gain here is flexibility.
Okay so now I can actually put whatever value in my tank which is kind of these variables in B and can
perform whatever operations on em.
I don't go have to go and write them again right.
So whatever you can do here.
And so scale it C D equals.
Let's say a plus b.
I can do that the multiplication can divine the variable in just months.
Add them together.
Run it and if every one of you d run it now is going to be 15 which makes sense.
Now I added 5 plus then there's an 8 15.
Great.
So what they're going to do here again.
I'm going to show you two more important concepts.
First one is that we wanted to get the kind of what we call the type of the variable.
Okay so we have different types.
In general when it comes to programming here I'm just going to cover the basic one which is what we
call it integer.
So if I wanted to let's say get a type of A which is a defined form.
Put a put into it.
It's what it could do here and I say okay I'm going to wanted to get what's a type I'm going to type
type and then open brackets and then I say what's the type let's say of D.
For example or 8 for instance is a type of a cell phone and that then you're supposed to apply that
thing with them UK SC.
Actually this is an integer.
OK.
Which means.
Which makes sense because he defined a as 10.
What if for example here I said okay.
No I'm not going to put 10 action in a put ten point five.
OK.
And then find another variable called it C E equals to 10.5 and run the 7 and then I'm going to go ahead
then get type of E..
Alright if I did that then you come up with something we need or they could totally different datatype
protocol float.
Which means that because here that is kind of a fraction in here.
So it's not integer anymore.
We call it in general in programming in general could just computer engineering quality float which.
There is a fraction no affection element in here.
There are tons of you know datatypes that are strings that are listed there are you know like sets.
There are tuple.
There are tons of them going to cover all of them here.
I just wanted to get just a quick overview of integers and floats.
Simply put integers to just number without any flexion in it here float is that when there is a kind
of very flat flexions Heath 10.5 then that means this is a foot.
OK.
Let's add a new sense.
Again I'm going to press a new sense of I could do here.
The last concept I wanted to use is that if let's assume that one or two for example take a number.
What's the key variable.
Let's call it why for example called a why let's say equal to 6.
OK.
And around it.
And what I wanted to do they wanted to increment that variable that VB Y by 1.
OK.
So again Simply put I want to take y add 1 to it and then put the new value which is suppose to be 7
again.
Back in y I can actually do this by saying wilkey I want it to y plus 1.
Again very simple.
And whatever that is onsen going to be getting here.
I'm going to put it again into Y.
Alright so that means the Y old plus one whatever the result I'm going to put it in we'll call it Y
new.
Which is kind of an overriding the actual variable again.
So if I run this way and if a view y right y and run it that was in a means 7 which means that it took
six added increment the one and then overwrote the value of y again.
When I it wanted to show you with that is kind of look like a kind of a professional way of writing
the increment operation in Python and in so many different programming languages that I've been exposed
to.
What you can do instead is say okay why.
Okay.
Plus equals 1 which is really strange scooches looks to me looks weird why its look looks as a kind
of you know a syntax error.
Like you or like something you know something is wrong.
Actually this means that y.
This means dits which means Y plus equal 1 means y equals y plus 1.
Which means take the old y add one to it and then generate a new one.
If I run it and if I give you why they call he'd said Y and run it then you come up with valuev 8.
Why.
Because you actually took 7 added one to it and generated it afterwards.
Right.
And that's again kind of a quick overview of what we have done so far.
So for the available assignment now we know instead of just multiplying two numbers together then one
can put a number into a variable number into a variable and then can perform operations on these variables.
Now I know two data types so far.
I know how do we do integers by getting the type of any variable.
I'm going to come up with integer.
Now I know what you mean by float with we have some fractions.
And here.
I know as well how can we increment variable within Python by you know just assuming y plus whatever
number you wanted to do and then override that value on y.
Other alternative is if we wanted to do Y plus equal 1 or Y plus equal to whatever the value wanted
to do that means Y old quite old.
Add the numbers to it and then put it on one new and that's pretty much all what we have for this section.
Again you're getting closer to mastering python.
Keep it up.
I hope you enjoyed it.
And see you in the next election.